Good to see you
again, in this video,
you're going to learn how to
handle the beginning
and the end of
a sentence when implementing
N-gram language models.
If conditional
probabilities are working
with a sliding window
of two or more words,
what happens at the beginning
or end of a sentence?
Let's take a closer
look at what's
happens at the very beginning,
and very end of a sentence.
I'll show you how to
modify the sentence using
two new symbols which denote
the start and end of a sentence.
You will see why these new
symbols are important.
Then you will add them to
the beginning and end of
your sentences for bigram
and general N-gram cases.
Now, I'll explain how to resolve
the first term in the
bigram approximation.
Let's revisit the
previous sentence.
The teacher drinks tea
or the first word the.
You don't have the context
of the previous word.
You can't calculate a
bigram probability,
which you'll need to
make your predictions.
What you'll do is add
a special term so
that each sentence of
your corpus becomes a bigram
that you can calculate
the probabilities for.
An example of a start
token is this S,
which you can now
use to calculate
the bigram probability
of the first word,
D, like this.
A similar principle
applies to N-grams.
For example, with trigrams,
the first two words don't
have enough contexts.
You don't need to
use the unigram of
the first word and bigram
of the first two words.
The missing contexts
can be fixed by
adding two starts of
sentence symbols,
brackets S to the
beginning of the sentence.
Now, the sentence probability
becomes a product of
trigram probabilities.
To generalize this for N-grams,
add n-minus-1 start tokens,
brackets S at the beginning
of each sentence.
Now, you can deal
with the unigrams
in the beginning of sentences.
What about the end
of the sentences?
Recall that the conditional
probability of word y given
word x was estimated as the
counts of all bigrams, x,
y divided by the counts of
all bigrams starting with x,
you simplify the denominator as
the counts of all unigrams x.
There is one case where the
simplification does not work.
When word x is the last
word of the sentence.
For example, if you look at
the word drinks in this corpus,
the sum of all
bigrams starting with
drinks is only equal to 1,
because the only bigram
that starts with
the word drinks is
drinks chocolates.
On the other hand,
the word drinks
appears twice in the corpus,
and the other currents
is a unigram.
To continue using your
simplified formula
for the conditional probability,
you need to add an
end-of-sentence token.
There's another issue with
your N-gram probabilities.
Let's say you have a
very small corpus with
only three sentences consisting
of two unique words.
Yes and no.
The corpus consists
of three sentences.
Yes, no, yes,
yes, and no, no.
These are all possible
sentences of length 2.
This can be generated from
the words yes and no,
and starting with the starts
of sentence symbol brackets
S. To calculate the
bigram probability
of the sentence, yes, yes,
take the probability of yes with
the added starts of
sentence symbol multiplied
by the probability of yes being
the second word where the
previous word was also yes.
The probability of yes with
the added starts of
sentence symbol is
the count of bigrams with
yes at the start
of the sentence,
divided by the count
of all bigrams,
starting with the starts
of sentence symbol,
you can only use the sum of
bigram counts in
the denominator.
Next, let's handle the
remaining unigrams.
Multiply the first term by
the fraction of the
accounts of bigram yes,
yes over the counts
of all bigrams starting
with a word yes.
You get 2 over 3 times 1.5,
which is equal to 1 over 3.
There you have the probability
of the sentence yes,
yes estimated from your corpus.
You have calculated the
probability of the sentence yes,
yes, and Gaussian one-third.
Now, you'll calculate
the probability of
the sentence yes,
no, and gets one-third again.
Next, get the probability
of the sentence no,
no and again one-third.
Finally, the probability
of the sentence no,
yes, and this is equal to 0.
Because there is no bigram,
no, yes in the corpus.
Now, here comes a surprise.
If you add the probabilities
of all four sentences,
the sum equals to 1, exactly
what you were aiming
for. That's great work.
Let's take a look at
all possible
three-word sentences
generated from words yes and no.
Begin by calculating
the probability
of the sentence yes, yes, yes.
Then yes, yes, no, and so on.
Until you've calculated
the probabilities of
all it possible sentences
of length three.
Finally, when you add
up the probabilities
of all the possible
sentences of length three,
you again gets the sum of one.
However, what you really
want is the sum of
the probabilities
for all sentences
of length to be equal to 1,
so that you can, for example,
compare the probabilities of
two sentences of
different lengths.
In other words, you want
the probabilities of
all two-word sentences plus
the probabilities of all
three-word sentences,
plus the probabilities of
all other sentences
of arbitrary lengths,
and you want this
to be equal to 1.
There is a surprisingly
simple fix for this.
You can preprocess your
training corpus to add
a special symbol which
represents the end
of the sentence,
which you will denote
with brackets,
/S after each sentence.
For example, when using
a bigram model for the sentence
the teacher drinks tea,
append symbol, backslash
S after the word tea.
Now, the sentence
probability calculation
contains a new term.
The term represents
the probability that
the sentence will end
after the word tea.
This also fixes the
issue with probability
of the sentences of
certain length equal to 1.
Let's see if this also resolves
your problem with the
bigram probability formula.
Now, there are two
bigrams starting with
the word drinks and these
are drinks chocolates
and drinks /S,
and accounts of unigrams
drinks remain the same.
That's great. You can keep using
the simplified formula for
the bigram probability
calculation.
How would you apply this
fixed for N-grams in general,
it turns out that
even for N-grams,
just adding one symbol per
sentence in the
corpus is enough.
For example, when
calculating trigram models,
the original sentence will
be preprocessed to contain,
to start tokens, any
single and token.
Let's have a look
at an example of
bigram probabilities
generated on
a slightly larger corpus.
Here's the corpus and here are
the conditional probabilities
of some of the bigrams.
Now, try to calculate
the probability of
lean with the starts
of sentence symbol.
There are three sentences total.
The Start symbol appears
three times in the corpus.
That gives you the denominator.
The bigram brackets S lyn
appears twice in the corpus.
That gives you the
numerator of 2.
The probability of the start
token followed by
lyn is 2 over 3.
Now, calculate the
probability of
the sentence lyn
drinks chocolates.
Starts with a
probability of bigram,
brackets S lyn,
which is 2 over 3,
then lyn drinks,
which is 1.5, then
drinks chocolates,
which is also 1.5.
Finally, chocolate /S,
which is 2 over 2.
Note that the result
is equal to 1 over 6,
which is lower than
the value of 1
over 3 you might expect
when calculating
the probability of one of
the three sentences in
the training corpus.
This also applies to
the other two sentences
in the corpus.
This remaining probability
can be distributed to
other sentences
possibly generated
from the bigrams in this corpus,
and that's how the
model generalizes.
I'll see you there.
In this video,
you saw an example of
beginning and end tokens
with bigram models.
This concept could be
generalized to other
types of models.
In the next video,
you will learn how to
build your first
N-gram language model.